 ## This Front Section Probably To Be Reworked Into Litepaper
 
The TEA Project is able to achieve its computational speed by on its layer-2 by leveraging the trust of its layer-1. Byzantine fault tolerance (BFT) requires blockchains to continually inspect nodes for signs of bad actors. Circumventing slow processing speeds inherent with BFT is an endemic problem of decentralized systems. TEA's layer-1 blockchain still uses Byzantine fault tolerance. The longer times needed to reach consensus on TEA's layer-1 won't interfere with the faster speeds required on its layer-2. The TEA network only needs to use the Proof of Trust (PoT) data on layer-1 to reach a consensus on the trustability of nodes on layer-2.

In the TEA Project, dApps run Web Assembly code on layer-2 within hardware-protected enclaves. TEA's root of trust comes from miners' hardware that forms the distributed nodes of the TEA network. Each mining machine has an embedded TPM chip that generates PoT data. This PoT data is stored on TEA's layer-1 blockchain. The beauty of this setup comes from the layer-1 trust data that TEA mining nodes can poll to reach consensus. 

The current state of every dApp running on the TEA network is maintained through a state machine that orders transactions using Proof of Time. Using time as a root of trust allows dApps to query the current state through the nearest node that works like a database tier from the app's perspective. Not only are TEA Project dApps fully decentralized, but they can also run full speed (thanks to the layer-2 nodes' protected execution enclaves) and can query a database layer (thanks to the layer-2 nodes' GPS modules).

## End of Litepaper section



