# 6. Conclusion

## Putting It All Together
Through the incentives mining for the TEA token as well as TApp token distributions, miners form the compute infrastructure ready to host decentralized applications known as **TApps**. This allows developers to deploy their apps to our platform including their existing web 2.0 apps because the TEA Project has the same three-tier architecture.

-   The front end for TApps is IPFS.
-   The server layer handles dev’s code compiled to WASM. Dev code is encrypted and only decrypted to run in the TPM-protected enclaves of the network's layer-2 miners (B CML mining nodes).
-   The database layer is handled according to the app requirements - NoSQL data is sent to IPFS as governed by B CML mining nodes, while relationship data is stored in GlueSQL as governed by A CML mining nodes.

The incentives provided by each TApp's bonding curve token acts as a source of fundraising for developers and an incentive to promote a TApp for its users and investors. 

Although we have focused on many complicated blockchain and state-machine related topics in this whitepaper, we will not re-hash those points in the conclusion. It's important to us that developers can build on the TEA Project without having to be experts in blockchain design or having to learn a new language. Everything in the TEA Project is designed to look from the app's point of view like it's running on a normal cloud computing architecture, with the magical benefit that it's running fully decentralized. The TEA Project design handles these details so developers and decentralized app users don't have to think about them.