As we enter the Web 3.0 era, the TEA Project aims to solve the need for decentralized trust while performing complex computations on large data sets. The TEA Project is a decentralized cloud computing platform that hosts "Rich dApps." These Rich dApps have high scalability while running on a distributed network of decentralized TEA mining nodes. The TEA Project aims to combine the power of cloud computing with the privacy of a decentralized blockchain solution.

TEA stands for **T**rusted **E**xecution and **A**ttestation, and it has a unique method of reaching a trustable consensus. The TEA Project uses consensus not to confirm the result of the dApp's code; it instead uses consensus to verify the execution environment where the code was run. TEA's philosophy is that **if the execution environment, code, and input data are trusted, then the execution result can also be trusted.**

## TEA: Two Layers of Consensus for Faster Dapps
The TEA Project is able to achieve its computational speed by using the Raft consensus algorithm on its layer-2 blockchain. Byzantine fault tolerance (BFT) requires blockchains to continually inspect nodes for signs of bad actors. Circumventing slow processing speeds inherent with BFT is an endemic problem of decentralized systems. Byzantine fault tolerance is still used by TEA's layer-1 blockchain. The longer times needed to reach consensus on TEA's layer-1 doesn't interfere with the faster speeds required on its layer-2. The TEA network only needs to use the Proof of Trust (PoT) data on layer-1 to reach a consensus on the trustability of nodes on layer-2. 

In the TEA Project, dApps run Web Assembly code on layer-2 within hardware-protected enclaves. TEA's root of trust comes from miners' hardware that forms the distributed nodes of the TEA network.  Each mining machine has an embedded TPM chip that generates PoT data. This PoT data is stored on TEA's layer-1 blockchain. The beauty of this setup comes from the layer-1 trust data that TEA mining nodes can poll to reach consensus. The current state of every dApp running on the TEA network is maintained by TEA nodes using the Raft consensus algorithm. This allows client dApps to run at the speed of a typical cloud computing setup, except these dApps are now fully decentralized on the TEA network.

## The Tech Stack Behind TEA's Layer-1 & Layer-2 Blockchains
TEA's layer-1 is based on the Substrate framework from [Parity Technologies](https://www.parity.io/technologies/substrate). As a Substrate blockchain, TEA is natively compatible with the Polkadot network. TEA's layer-1 is also flexible enough to work with any other blockchain.

TEA Project's layer-2 currently uses the file storage and networking services provided by IPFS. Any current IPFS miner can begin participating in the TEA network by adding a TEA hardware security module (such as a Raspberry Pi with a TPM chip). The TEA Project effectively adds computing services on top of IPFS.

Client blockchains can use TEA as a layer-2 to offload complex computations onto the TEA network. The client blockchain can verify the PoT data on TEA's layer-1 blockchain to verify that the returned execution result is trustable.

The TEA Project has two tokens; TEA and Camellia. TEA token is a stable utility token as gas, while the Camellia token is an NFT that's necessary for bringing a TEA mining node online.

The TEA Project offers the security of the blockchain combined with the scalability of cloud computing. It also offers privacy and censorship-resistance to its users without sacrificing decentralization. Visit us at [TeaProject.org](https://teaproject.org) to learn more.