Availability, reliability, robustness. Technically doable.
The design concept or design philosophy of the TEA Project is very innovative.

Firstly, the TEA Project is unlike other projects that have tried to improve the consensus of the blockchain. The TEA project does not try to improve the consensus of the blockchain, but allows the consensus algorithm to do what it is suitable for. According to Kevin's analogy: "A security guard stands at the door of an institution. The duty of a security guard is to ensure that only authorized personnel can enter and keep other outsiders out of the door. The security guard does not need to understand or be good at the professional business of the institution, just stand on guard. In this way, the goal of security is achieved and the security salary is not high." TEA Project is like this, it only allows the blockchain consensus to process the trusted data PoT (Proof of trust) provided by the hardware of the layer 2 nodes rather than processing the customers’ code logic. Therefore, the existing blockchain speed is sufficient for such a simple task. The truly complex customer business logic runs in a secure layer 2  trusted computing environment.

Another important design principle is “Less is More”. From the perspective of computer security, as long as the TCB (Trusted code base) that needs to be protected is large and complex, it would not be safe, therefore, the TEA project is a very simple design. TPM is a classic case of a security chip in this regard. TPM is a chip that is basically too simple to be attacked. It has become a security technology used by so many devices that have been running for so many years. In order to apply this simple design principle to the other levels of technology stack, TEA Project has also streamlined NixOS which was already streamlined (a special LInux release is known for streamlining and security), not only removed the conventional unnecessary operating system modules, but also removed the network modules that considered as ‘must exist’. In this way, there is no network in the TEA security domain. Naturally, without a network, hackers cannot remotely initiate network attacks against the trusted area of ​​TEA through the network. At the application layer, it is strictly required that only WebAssembly code can run On TEA-runtime, the security of the entire system has been strengthened again by using the language security of WebAssembly itself.  These approaches have not raised the barrier for developing applications.

The last and equally important design principle is using economic design to change the principle of security protection; from preventing hackers from being ‘unable to attack’ to ‘too expensive to attack’ It uses a number of mature cryptography technologies to randomize the computing process and anonymize secret substitution, thereby greatly increasing the difficulty of the attack and the probability of failure–– all attacking costs. 

TEA Project completed a demo on the simulator last year. This demo implements an artificial intelligence computing task on the blockchain under the premise of protecting data and code privacy. This demo video is still on the TEAProject.org website.

Because TEA's main network has not yet been publicly operated, there is still a lack of actual operating evidence while discussing its robustness. Currently, it is only possible to speculate on its safety, reliability and robustness through design ideas, principles and codes.

Since TEA Project did not invent new consensus algorithms and encryption technologies that require mathematics or time proof, it uses a large number of security technologies that have been mature for many years (such as TPM). Although very new, it already has a broad open source community-based mature technology ( Such as IPFS, WebAssembly). There is also already a prototype Demo that can be run, making there little doubt about the availability.


Leveraging hardware and redundancy design (a distributed system composed of a large number of TEA node replicas), it can be speculated that it has high reliability and robustness. It can tolerate no more than 1/3 of node failures or Byzantine faults.
