# What does the Easy Start dApp do?
The Easy Start dApp demostrate a fiction user case.

- Alice has a picture (The olddy lion picture). Assuming this animal picture has huge value. Alice offer a price $2 per use if anyone want to use this picture in an application.
- Bob developed a Tensorflow image recognization algorithm. Compiled to WebAssembly code. It takes a picture as parameter, output the recognization result.
- Charlie is a scientist. he knows Alice has a valuable picture. he wants to run Bob's Tensorflow algorithm to identify the animal in Alice's picture. Charlie is willing to pay Alice and Bob for using Alice's picture and Bob's code in order to get the result.
- Alice doesn't trust Bob or Charlie. Once any of them receive this picture, they may save a copy.
- Bob doens't trust Alice or Charlie, he doesn't want to send the code over to any of them.

This kind of problem can be typically resolved using Blockchain, MPC or FHE if this algorithm is simple enough. But unfortunetely, this AI algirhtm is too complicated to run on any of these alternatives. This is just a simple example, the real world AI algorithm is much more complicated than just an image recognization. Many of the cases need to use TPU rather than CPU to run. How do we deal with this situation?

TEA is invented to resolve this type of problem. 

Let's simplify the whole process into a few smaller steps. 

## Deploy data

Alice run the TEA deployment tool dApp in her browser.
Alice first need to choose a TEA node has her delegator. If Alice runs her own TEA node, she should her own node. If not, she can choose one of the well-known high-credit-score nodes as delegator. Because those nodes are considered "trustful". Let's assume that Alice choose Dave as her delegator.

When Alice upload this picture in her browser. The TEA deployment tool generate a random AES key to encrypt Alice's picture then upload the encrypted image to IPFS, response as a CID.

The AES key will be send to Dave's TEA modules using an RSA key generated by the TEA module's hardware. Only TEA module can decrypt the AES key. That's why we do not need https, because we provider higher level of security and decentralism than https.

Besides the image itself, Alice also need to write a description about her data. The content includes the pricing model, such as "pay-per-use" and price.

Once the CID of encrypted image and encrypted AES key posted to Dave's node. The Deployment of data is completed.

## Deply code
Very similar to the process of deplolyment of data as Alice did in previous section because code is simple a kind of data, just executable. However, because it is executable, we will need a capability checker to make sure the code will be run in a correct environment.

Bob developed the Tensorflow algorithm. He need to compile it to WebAssembly (wasm) binary.

Asseume Bob's code need some speicial hardware support (TPU for example), he need to run a Capability Checker to make sure other node is capable to run his code. This checker is called CapChecker in our TEA project. The CapChecker can be either a JSON format description file or a WASM executable code. However wants to *host* Bob's code need to pass the CapChecking process. More on this on the Deployment and Repin section below.

Similar to deploying data, Bob also need a description file claims the pricing model and price.

## Deployment and Repin



## Submit a task

## Find an Executor

## Run the task

## Get result back


# This is not your grandpa's serverless

Serverless is not a new concept. Typical Function-as-a-Service is also called Serverless. But when we say Serverless, we mean it. Because there is no server running, your code runs either on your own browser (your own trusted area) or a random TEA module (another trusted area protected by TEA blockchain and hardware). 

When you click the demo dapp link, you will notice that your browser connect to an IPFS url with a CID as parameter. The CID is the IPFS Content ID of the entry point of the dApp front-end code. Actually the IPFS node doesn't matter, you can connect o any IPFS node, even your local host if you are running a local IPFS node. Only the CID matter. This one of the key points of the IPFS protocol, you do not care which server , they are all the same. You only care the content (CID = Content ID). This idea also works in TEA project. You do not care which TEA node runs your function, you only care the CID of code and CID of data. TEA project's consenssus protocol ensure the correct code runs again correct data and you can get the correct data. At mean time, no privacy leaking.

# You see the "Not Secure" in browser because we do not need to use https

You probably have noticed the "Not Secure" in your web browser. That's because we use http not https. The reason people use https it to protect data transfer between browser and server. This is based on a basic assumption that server is trustable. However, TEA project doesn't have such an assumption. We do *not* trust server, we only trust an add-on hardware protected TEA module. In order to bypass the server we use end-to-end encryption between your browser and the TEA module. Therefore the https makes no sense to us. Another reason, https need to get a Cert which we consider it is a centralized solution. We try to do everything as much as decentralized.

If you want to know more about "Not Secure", you can find a Q&A under FAQ session.

# 