## TEA Project: Advancing Web3 Towards Full, Decentralized Computing
TEA Project is a decentralized cloud computing platform that hosts rich, decentralized applications that run completely serverless inside of contributor's compute nodes. The TEA Project creates an ideal app platform for its apps (known as TApps) that are unstoppable, censorship-free, and that must respect user privacy. 

Developers wishing to deploy to web3 have to deal with the limitations of technologies like blockchain and IPFS. But valuing decentralization has up to now meant dealing with the limitations of consensus and the limited computing capabilities of smart contracts. The TEA Project builds upon web3 technologies like blockchain as well as trusted hardware to unlock a decentralized compute layer that runs on par with traditional cloud apps.

One of the enduring problems of decentralized systems is how to circumvent the slow processing speeds inherent with consensus. The TEA Project avoids slower forms of consensus through the use of three roots of trust: blockchain, trusted hardware, and time. These three roots of trust are used to create two separate consensus algorithms:

- **Proof of Trust**: A central TEA principle is that if the execution environment can be trusted, then the execution result can be trusted as well. The consensus mechanism of other protocols are generally concerned with the execution result and not the integrity of the compute environments. TEA’s compute layer consensus verifies the integrity of its compute nodes using the trust data from the onboard hardware security modules (HSM), with the resulting status written to the Ethereum blockchain. 
- **Proof of Time**: The consensus mechanism for a decentralized state machine is ultimately trying to get its participants to agree on the same sequence of transactions. To this end, the TEA Project’s state machine runs a separate consensus based on time. Specifically, TEA uses the timestamps as reported by the compute nodes’ atomic clocks (or GPS) units to order transactions coming to its state machine. Since time is trustable in our universe, TEA uses it as the basis of transaction ordering in its state machine.

It could be said that these two new consensus mechanisms are the TEA Project's main innovations that unlock a full-speed decentralized web for apps that require data security and censorship-resistance. By combining blockchain with IPFS, GPS and trusted hardware, the TEA Project can meet the needs of large-scale, high-frequency apps while ensuring permission-less decentralization and data privacy protection.

## TEA Project's 3 Roots of Trust

As we move away from the centralized server stack and the user data abuses that are endemic to the hosted cloud, the TEA Project is able to provide developers a decentralized compute infrastructure that respects data privacy. At the same time, any decentralized compute network like TEA’s introduces the question of trust. If anyone can run a node that hosts apps, how can we trust these nodes?

The TEA Project creates a decentralized compute network capable of running full speed apps by combining three roots of trust:

1. **Blockchain** (Ethereum) is used to store the remote attestation results of TEA’s compute nodes and to enforce economic incentives for node runners (miners).
2. TEA uses the **hardware security modules** (such as TPM chips) aboard the compute nodes to run compute tasks privately. A natural byproduct of this architecture is that user data remains private and isn’t leaked outside the enclave.
3. **Atomic clocks** form the basis of TEA's Proof of Time consensus which reliably orders transactions from the decentralized nodes. This forms the basis of the state machine that maintains the present status of all the apps running on TEA’s compute layer.

## How TEA Project Solves Web2 & Web3’s Biggest Problems
### TEA & Web2
The web2 world of cloud-hosted apps has created an emerging need for apps that truly protect **private user data**. End-users want to use apps without giving companies access to their private data without their consent. The TEA Project is able to meet this emerging privacy demand as data running inside of TApps remains within each node's enclave. The trustability of each compute node is vouchsafed by the platform itself. The technologies built into the TEA platform protects the data as well as the integrity of the result. Under the watchful eye of hardwar security modules, the decentralized app’s computation is based on the expected code and the expected data. No one can alter the input code, the input data, or the output result. If any of the nodes have been tampered with or hacked, the TPM will report it. We verify the result by verifying the execution environment: if the execution environment is trustable, then we can trust the result of an app running in that trusted environment. The result of the computation is correct given the computing environment is verified through proof of trust data that is shared in the network and verified via remote attestation. 

One of the major benefits of using apps deployed on the TEA Project is that computing only happens within the protected enclaves of the decentralized TEA Project nodes. This means that the node hosting the app code and private user data has no access while the app executes with the user-provided data. After the app execution is completed, the contents of the enclave is destroyed. The end-user gets the result from the app and there are no traces of their private data left anywhere on our network. There's no chance of data breaches during the entire process.

### TEA & Web3
Blockchains like Ethereum provide a world computer where smart contracts can run in a decentralized manner. They are further augmented by Web3 innovations like IPFS, a peer-2-peer file system that stores files decentralized. But smart contracts by themselves cannot currently run complex algorithms. Attempts to do so have shown smart contracts to be too slow or too expensive as they lack the processing power compared to modern cloud computers. The TEA Project offers a compute layer that sits adjacent to blockchain while offering the same level of decentralization and trust. We're a fully decentralized compute layer without the limitations of smart contracts.

The emerging web3 strategies for solving data privacy issues have been fraught with compromises.

- Multiple projects have adopted Intel's SGX chip specification to provide a trusted execution environment (TEE) within the CPU itself. However, Intel is a central authority which introduces centralization, the hazards of which were realized when Intel decided to discontinue their SGX chip line for consumer CPUs.
- Other projects have chosen to leave everything encrypted within their platform to preserve data privacy. This type of design requires datacenter-level hardware to decrypt these data streams in a timely manner, which makes running a node an institutional endeavor outside the reach of ordinary miners. 
- The limitations of smart contract-based web3 platforms is often counteracted by introducing centralized hosting to do the heavy lifting for the dApp. For a gaming dApp, this could mean that while game items are tracked on the blockchain the actual gameplay happens on centralized servers. This of course turns supposed dApps into hybrid dApps with all of the data security issues that are typical with centralized hosting.

Smart contracts run slowly because of the consensus required to confirm transactions on the blockchain. Because Ethereum's mining nodes are not trustable (e.g. any of them could present an alternate ledger it hopes to pass off as the truth), a BFT consensus algorithm is necessary to deal with scenarios where not all nodes are telling the truth. The TEA Project is able to sidestep this quandary of decentralized nodes by performing remote attestation on all of its compute layer nodes. And we no longer have to worry about Byzantine faults because all of TEA’s compute nodes are trustable as determined by remote attestation. 

Typically, only centralized cloud computing can take consensus for granted as a single company is able to oversee all of the computing nodes. That allows cloud computing companies to be scalable and secure (as long as you trust the company). But we can’t totally trust our data with these companies as they are centralized and are typically not transparent with their data safeguards.

The TEA Project's non-traditional consensus uses time to ensure that transactions are properly ordered in our state machine. Proof of time gives TEA a consensus on the sequence of events between all decentralized nodes, which allows them to share a global state machine. The hardware security modules onboard the compute nodes ensures that the GPS units haven't been hacked or altered in anyway which ensures that the timestamps coming from each node are trustable. Because of our non-traditional consensus, our compute layer doesn't have any "TPS" (txns per second) limitations as it's not burdened with the slow BFT consensus that operates on blockchain.

It should be noted that the primary function of the smart contract is to keep the trust status of TEA's compute nodes. The smart contract also provides a list of IP addresses from which end-users can load the TAppStore. And although TEA Project is currently deployed to Ethereum, it can be deployed as a smart contract to multiple layer-1 blockchains. 

## TEA’s Biggest Innovation is Trust as a Service
In the TEA Project, computing nodes become trusted through a remote attestation process. The concept of trusted computing has so far been stuck in the limiting paradigm of one-computer = one-metal-box. This old thinking limits its expansion and possible uses cases in a distributed world. It needs the help of blockchain and other emerging technologies to expand beyond its current barriers. In particular, it needs a solution like the TEA Project to make a decentralized network of hosting nodes trustable without sacrificing app execution speed.

In the TEA Project, trust is already taken care of by the remote attestation process. That allows our compute layer nodes to all trust each other by default and no longer need to watch for Byzantine faults. Every TEA node can reference this PoT data for every node participant to verify any individual TEA node's integrity through remote attestation. Nodes in the TEA network are incentivized by the token economy to perform remote attestation verification.

The TEA nodes’ hardware security modules allow the compute nodes to offer a hardware-protected enclave where code and data can run securely. Anyone outside the TEA module's hardware has no knowledge about what happens inside the module. Neither the TEA node's owner nor the server connected to the module will know, nor can anyone predict which node is running any particular task. This gives the TEA network security as no information can be breached during this secure workflow.

The TEA Project's goal is to build a platform that allows code and data to run inside trusted TEA modules without needing to trust anything else. The technologies built into the TEA platform protects the data and the integrity of the result. Developers can build their apps on TEA Project and benefit from TEA's Trust as a Service to run secure apps.

The decentralized app’s computation is based on the expected code and the expected data. Once a node is proven to be trustable, no one can alter the input code, the input data, or the output result. The result of the computation is correct given the computing environment is verified through proof of trust data that is shared in the network and verified via remote attestation. The TEA Project’s decentralized apps can thus run on par with cloud computers and do so with a an even higher level of trust.
