# The TEA Project's Compute Layer 

**TEA** stands for **Trusted Execution** and **Attestation**. TEA Project uses trusted hardware, blockchain, and time as its three roots of trust to create a secure and decentralized cloud computing platform. Combining these technologies allows the TEA Project to scale without compromising security or decentralization.

In brief, we can say that the layer-1 blockchain we use, Ethereum, enforces the trust status of each of the hosting nodes. Any hosting nodes deemed not trustable via remote attestation will not be allowed to run on our compute layer and will have its monetary deposit slashed by the layer-1. The consensus algorithm running on our compute layer uses remote attestation to verify the execution environment where the code is run. The TEA Project's philosophy is that if the execution environment, code, and input data are trusted, then the execution result can also be trusted. 

The TEA Project aims to build a platform that allows code and data to run inside TEA nodes with complete trust. The technologies built into the TEA platform protects the data and makes sure: 

- The computation is based on the expected code and expected data. No one can alter the input code, the input data, or the output result. 
- Anyone outside the TEA module's hardware has no access to what's inside the module.
- After the task is done, anyone can verify with Proof of Trust data that their code and data was processed in an untampered enclave.  

Developers themselves don't need any special knowledge about blockchain or consensus algorithms to get the decentralization and security benefits inherent in the TEA Project's compute layer. They only need to set WebAssembly as their code compilation target, which allows them to use their preferred programming languages. TApps follow the same three-tier architecture prevalent in cloud computing (front-end, back-end, and database), but TEA Project TApps run fully decentralized. 

## The Technical Implementation of the TEA Project's Compute Layer 
The goal of the TEA Project is to create a decentralized compute platform where each hosting node is a secure execution environment. Once a node is certified trustable (after successfully passing remote attestation), it can run app code in its HSM-protected hardware enclave that interacts with decrypted customer data. The system is designed such that the hosting nodes don't have access to the customer's data or app code once it enters the hosting node's protected enclave.

There are many technologies that help form the TEA Project's secure, decentralized infrastructure for running TApps. 

The **hardware security modules** provide the protected enclaves for app execution while TEA's data storage uses **IPFS/libp2p** to form a peer-to-peer network. Because IPFS is publicly accessible, storing data on IPFS means everyone can access it as long as the content identifier (CID) is known. In order to protect the data, everything TEA stores in IPFS will be encrypted. The encryption key will never be stored in IPFS or any persistent media and only resides in the memory of the TEA modules. 

Only a minimized operating system, the **TEA Runtime**, is running inside the TEA hosting nodes. TEA's runtime environment is **WebAssembly (Wasm)** that is specially configured to run inside a secure enclave. Wasm is the only code allowed to run in the TEA runtime, as Wasm bytecode is considered one of the most secure forms of executables. The security built into the WebAssembly language itself also helps to secure the network. Using Wasm is also conducive for developing applications in the TEA ecosystem as most modern programming languages can be compiled into the WebAssembly code format. Developers can stick with their preferred programming languages to write their apps which speeds up development on the TEA platform.

## A Summary of How TEA Project Uses Blockchain 
TEA uses its layer-1 blockchain to provide: 

- Economic incentives and penalties that form the basis of its token economy.
- Trust information storage written to the CML NFTs's metadata (ERC-721).

The trust information stored within each CML NFT's metadata determines if the corresponding compute layer node can run or not.

- Each compute layer node must be in good standing based on the information reported by the node's HSM under the watch of remote attestation. If a node's CML NFT has indicated it failed remote attestation, its deposit will be slashed and the node will be taken offline.
- The layer-1 blockchain keeps the trust status on each of the compute layer nodes to ensure that they are all trustable. 
- Because all all compute nodes that pass remote attestation are trustable, we no longer have to worry about Byzantine faults on our compute layer. The second root of trust for our compute layer, time, ensures that transactions are always properly ordered in our state machine using our non-traditional consensus.

Economics-wise, using VRF to randomly select which node will lead the execution of a client's computation job ensures that it would be very costly to attack the TEA network. We use token incentives to encourage many participants to run a node themselves and others to buy CML tokens which entitle the investors to a share of the node’s mining profits. If a node is found to be tampered as revealed by remote attestation, the CML’s tokens are slashed and all token buyers will lose their investment. This is an example of how TEA uses economic incentives to reinforce well-behaving nodes.

## Remote Attestation 

The remote attestation process is used in conjunction with the hardware security modules (HSM) onboard the mining computers to ensure each node is trustable. 

- Multiple nodes are randomly called to conduct remote attestation on any particular node under inspection. 
- The results of these remote attestations are stored in the compute layer's database. 
- Successful remote attestation on a candidate node ensures that the machine's HSM hasn't been tampered with. Therefore, the secure enclave overseen by the HSM is trustable and will protect the confidentiality of both the code and data processed within the enclave. 

It’s through this remote attestation process that the TEA Project has been able to create a completely trustable peer-to-peer network of compute layer nodes that are protected and monitored by hardware TPM chips. Every TEA node, through the remote attestation process, can verify the integrity of any other TEA node. 

This is the fundamental premise of the TEA Project's concept of trust. If a node shows full integrity under remote attestations performed by multiple peer nodes, then its enclave is secure, and the resulting calculations (i.e. app output) can be trusted. 

## How TEA Conducts Remote Attestation 
In the TEA network, each trusted computing node has a Root of Trust (RoT), a key pair generated by the HSM manufacturer. The private key for this RoT is held inside the hardware and not known to anyone, including the manufacturer. Each node's public key is recorded in a database on TEA's compute layer. 

TEA Project currently runs on AWS Nitro for its compute nodes. Unlike hardware TPM chips that generate Proof of Trust data, the remote attestation process will involve interacting with the KMS of each Nitro instance. The process of remote attestation of AWS Nitro nodes proceeds as follows:

1. Periodically, the TEA Project will select a random node to run remote attestation on. It will request:

- The node's KMS to generate its attestation document.
- The node to generate its hardware fingerprint and fingerprints for all the software modules running in the node. These will need to be signed by the Nitro node's private key before being returned as a response to the attestation request. 

2. The attestor will compare the KMS-generated attestation document to the hardware fingerprints claimed by the software (TEA runtime) running in the node. Each attesting node:

- Verifies the signature of the attestation documents.
- Verifies that the two attestation documents have no discrepancies for the hardware fingerprints.

3. TEA's compute layer uses a Raft consensus protocol where a leader node randomly selects remote attestation nodes to challenge the randomly selected node being tested. If a two-thirds (2/3) majority of attestor nodes (including the leader) receive a positive result from verifying the target node's requested attestation material, the tested node will have passed the consensus verification and be marked as trustable to use. Note that trustable nodes are the only ones selectable to perform the remote attestation process. Therefore, as long as the network can keep a minimum ratio of 2/3 trustable nodes, we can trust the consensus result. To maintain this minimum threshold, the TEA Project team will initially bootstrap the network with clean nodes and control the birth rate of new nodes by controlling the issuance of Camellia NFTs needed to run nodes on the TEA network. 

4. Finally, the result of the attestation process is recorded on the layer-1 blockchain. 

- If attestation passed, the result will be written to the CML NFT's metadata (ERC-721).
- If attestation failed, the result will be written to the CML NFT's metadata (ERC-721).

In the event that a CML is marked as failing remote attestation, it will no longer be allowed to run on TEA's network and its bonding curve tokens will be slashed to 0 and forfeited by all of its owners.

## Caveats About TEA's Use of Blockchain
The TEA Project's layer-1 is currently Ethereum but TEA's compute layer can be run on top of any smart contract-based blockchain. TEA was designed with portability in mind and can change the underlying layer-1 it runs on as long as there's a smart contract deployed there to communicate with.

TEA's considers blockchain a root of trust in that it uses token incentives governed by the blockchain to incentivize good behavior among nodes. Given that each compute layer node must at least have a deposit (in TEA tokens) as well as have purchased a CML NFT for a mining license, it stands to reason that bad behavior such as tampering with the hardware will result in economic loss for the node runner. Blockchain is thus used by the TEA Project indirectly and isn't essential to the platform's functioning like TEA's other two roots of trust, secure hardware and time.

The TEA Project has two main tokens: TEA (ERC-20) and the CML NFT (ERC-721). These entities exist primarily in our compute layer and are mirrored to our main layer-1 chain, the Ethereum blockchain. When an end-user withdraws TEA from our compute layer to Ethereum, we burn the amount that was withdrewn. Similarly, an end-user's deposit into the compute layer will burn the same amount of tokens on Ethereum. Optionally, we may at some point turn off the bridge to layer-1. This bridge is technically breakable if there are any legal concerns depending on the needs of enterprise. At that point, fiat can be used to fund the compute layer operations and any TEA or CML that the fiat buys stays only within the compute layer.

## TEA’s Biggest Innovation is Trust as a Service
In the TEA Project, computing nodes become trusted through a remote attestation process. The concept of trusted computing has so far been stuck in the limiting paradigm of one-computer = one-metal-box. This old thinking limits its expansion and possible uses cases in a distributed world. It needs the help of blockchain and other emerging technologies to expand beyond its current barriers. In particular, it needs a solution like the TEA Project to make a decentralized network of hosting nodes trustable without sacrificing app execution speed.

In the TEA Project, trust is already taken care of by the remote attestation process. That allows our compute layer nodes to all trust each other by default and no longer need to watch for Byzantine faults. Every TEA node can reference this PoT data for every node participant to verify any individual TEA node's integrity through remote attestation. Nodes in the TEA network are incentivized by the token economy to perform remote attestation verification.

The TEA nodes’ hardware security modules allow the compute nodes to offer a hardware-protected enclave where code and data can run securely. Anyone outside the TEA module's hardware has no knowledge about what happens inside the module. Neither the TEA node's owner nor the server connected to the module will know, nor can anyone predict which node is running any particular task. This gives the TEA network security as no information can be breached during this secure workflow.

The TEA Project's goal is to build a platform that allows code and data to run inside trusted TEA modules without needing to trust anything else. The technologies built into the TEA platform protects the data and the integrity of the result. Developers can build their apps on TEA Project and benefit from TEA's Trust as a Service to run secure apps.

The decentralized app’s computation is based on the expected code and the expected data. Once a node is proven to be trustable, no one can alter the input code, the input data, or the output result. The result of the computation is correct given the computing environment is verified through proof of trust data that is shared in the network and verified via remote attestation. The TEA Project’s decentralized apps can thus run on par with cloud computers and do so with a an even higher level of trust.
