# The TEA Project's Two Layer Setup for Fast Dapps 

**TEA** stands for **Trusted Execution** and **Attestation**. TEA Project uses trusted hardware, blockchain, and time as its three roots of trust to create a secure and decentralized cloud computing platform. TEA's compute layer utilizes blockchain while utilizing the IPFS peer-to-peer filesytem and trusted hardware (TPM and GPS modules). Combining these technologies allows the TEA Project to scale without compromising security or decentralization.

In brief, we can say that the layer-1 blockchain we use, Ethereum, enforces the trust status of each of the hosting nodes. Any hosting nodes deemed not trustable via remote attestation will not be allowed to run on our compute layer and will have its monetary deposit slashed by the layer-1. The  consensus algorithm running on our compute layer uses remote attestation to verify the execution environment where the code is run. The TEA Project's philosophy is that if the execution environment, code, and input data are trusted, then the execution result can also be trusted. 

The TEA Project aims to build a platform that allows code and data to run inside TEA nodes with complete trust. The technologies built into the TEA platform protects the data and makes sure: 

- The computation is based on the expected code and expected data. No one can alter the input code, the input data, or the output result. 
- Anyone outside the TEA module's hardware has no access to what's inside the module.
- After the task is done, anyone can verify the Proof of Trust data of how their code or data was processed. 

## The TEA Project's Compute Layer
The goal of the TEA Project is to create a decentralized compute platform where each hosting node is a secure execution environment. Once a node is certified trustable (after successfully passing remote attestation), it can run encrypted app code in its TPM-protected hardware enclave that interacts with encrypted customer data. The system is designed such that neither the miners nor the developers have access to the customer's data or app code once it enters the mining machine's protected enclave. 

Developers themselves don't need any special knowledge about blockchain or consensus algorithms to get the decentralization and security benefits inherent in the TEA Project's compute layer. They only need to set WebAssembly as their code compilation target, allowing them to use their preferred programming languages. TApps follow the same three-tier architecture prevalent in cloud computing (presentation tier, app tier, and database tier), but TEA Project TApps run fully decentralized. 

## The Technical Implementation of the TEA Project's Layer-2 Blockchain 
There are many technologies that form the TEA Project's decentralized infrastructure that the TApps run on. 

The **hardware security modules** provide the protected enclaves for app execution while TEA's data storage uses **IPFS/libp2p** to form a peer-to-peer network. Because IPFS is publicly accessible, storing data on IPFS means everyone can access it as long as the content identifier (CID) is known. In order to protect the data, everything TEA stores in IPFS will be encrypted. The encryption key will never be stored in IPFS or any persistent media and only resides in the memory of the TEA modules. 

TEA's runtime environment is **WebAssembly (Wasm)** that is specially configured to run inside a secure enclave. Wasm is the only code allowed to run in the TEA runtime, as Wasm bytecode is considered one of the most secure forms of executables. The security built into the WebAssembly language itself also helps to secure the network. Using Wasm is also conducive for developing applications in the TEA ecosystem as most modern programming languages can be compiled into the WebAssembly code format. Developers can stick with their preferred programming languages to write their apps which speeds up development on the TEA platform.

Only a minimized operating system, the **TEA Runtime**, is running inside the TEA hosting nodes. One important change from the stock distribution is that vSockets have replaced the TCP/IP networking stack. This means that the secure enclave cannot initiate or accept inbound/outbound internet traffic when processing a client's task within the enclave.



## A Summary of How TEA Project Uses Blockchain 
TEA uses its layer-1 blockchain to provide: 

- Economic incentives and penalties that form the basis of its token economy.
- Trust information storage written to the CML NFTs's metadata (ERC-721).

Let’s take a closer look at the PoT information that TEA keeps on its layer-1 blockchain.

- The layer-1 blockchain keeps the trust status on each of the layer-2 mining nodes to ensure that all layer-2 nodes are trustable. 
- Each layer-2 node must be in good standing based on the information reported by the node's HSM under the watch of remote attestation.
- Because all layer-2 nodes are trustable (as determined by TEA's remote attestation), we no longer have to worry about Byzantine faults on layer-2. There's no traditional consensus needed on layer-2. The second root of trust for our layer-2, time, ensures that transactions are always properly ordered in our state machine.

Economics-wise, using VRF to randomly select which node will lead the execution of a client's computation job ensures that it would be very costly to attack the TEA network. We use token incentives to encourage many participants to run a node themselves and others to buy CML tokens which entitle the investors to a share of the node’s mining profits. If a node is found to be tampered as revealed by remote attestation, the CML’s tokens are slashed and all token buyers will lose their investment. This is an example of how TEA uses economic incentives to reinforce well-behaving nodes.

## Remote Attestation 

The remote attestation process is used in conjunction with the hardware security modules (HSM) onboard the mining computers to ensure each node is trustable. 

- Multiple nodes are randomly called to conduct remote attestation on any particular node under inspection. 
- The results of these remote attestations are stored in the compute layer's database. 
- Successful remote attestation on a candidate node ensures that the machine's HSM hasn't been tampered with. Therefore, the secure enclave overseen by the HSM is trustable and will protect the confidentiality of both the code and data processed within the enclave. 

It’s through this remote attestation process that the TEA Project has been able to create a completely trustable peer-to-peer network of layer-2 nodes that are protected and monitored by hardware TPM chips. Every TEA node, through the remote attestation process, can verify the integrity of any other TEA node. 

This is the fundamental premise of the TEA Project's concept of trust. If a node shows full integrity under remote attestations performed by multiple peer nodes, then its enclave is secure, and the resulting calculations (i.e. app output) can be trusted. 

## How TEA Conducts Remote Attestation 
In the TEA network, each trusted computing node has a Root of Trust (RoT), a key pair generated by the HSM manufacturer. The private key for this RoT is held inside the hardware and not known to anyone, including the manufacturer. Each node's public key is recorded in a database on TEA's compute layer. 

TEA Project currently runs on AWS Nitro for its compute nodes. Unlike hardware TPM chips that generate Proof of Trust data, the remote attestation process will involve interacting with the KMS of each Nitro instance. The process of remote attestation of AWS Nitro nodes proceeds as follows:

1. Periodically, the TEA Project's layer-2 will select a random node to run remote attestation on. It will request:

- The node's KMS to generate its attestation document.
- Request the node to generate its hardware fingerprint and fingerprints for all the software modules running in the node. These will need to be signed by the Nitro node's private key before being returned as a response to the attestation request. 

2. The attestor will compare the KMS-generated attestation document to the hardware fingerprints claimed by the software (TEA runtime) running in the node. Each attesting node:

- Verifies the signature of the attestation documents.
- Verifies that the two attestation documents have no discrepancies for the hardware fingerprints.

3. TEA's layer-2 uses a Raft consensus protocol where a leader node randomly selects remote attestation nodes on layer-2 to challenge the randomly selected node (also on layer-2) being tested. If a two-thirds (2/3) majority of attestor nodes (including the leader) receive a positive result from verifying the target node's requested attestation material, the tested node will have passed the consensus verification and be marked as trustable to use. Note that trustable nodes are the only ones selectable to perform the remote attestation process. Therefore, as long as the network can keep a minimum ratio of 2/3 trustable nodes, we can trust the consensus result. To maintain this minimum threshold, the TEA Project team will initially bootstrap the network with clean nodes and control the birth rate of new nodes by controlling the issuance of Camellia NFTs needed to run nodes on the TEA network. 

4. Finally, the result of the attestation process is recorded on the layer-1 blockchain. 

- If attestation passed, the result will be written to the CML NFT's metadata (ERC-721).
- If attestation failed, the result will be written to the CML NFT's metadata (ERC-721).

In the event that a CML is marked as failing remote attestation, it will no longer be allowed to run on TEA's layer-2 and its bonding curve tokens will be slashed to 0 and forfeited by all of its owners.

## Caveats About TEA's Use of Blockchain
The TEA Project's layer-1 is currently Ethereum but TEA's compute layer-2 can be run on top of any smart contract-based blockchain. TEA was designed with portability in mind and can change the underlying layer-1 it runs on as long as there's a smart contract deployed there it can communicate with.

TEA's considers blockchain a root of trust in that it uses token incentives governed by the blockchain to incentivize good behavior among nodes. Given that each compute layer node must at least have a deposit (in TEA tokens) as well as have purchased a CML NFT for a mining license, it stands to reason that bad behavior such as tampering with the hardware will result in economic loss for the node runner. Blockchain is thus used by the TEA Project indirectly and isn't essential to the platform's functioning like TEA's other two roots of trust, secure hardware and time.

The TEA Project has two main tokens: TEA (ERC-20) and the CML NFT (ERC-721). These entities exist primarily in our compute layer and are mirrored to our main layer-1 chain, the Ethereum blockchain. When an end-user withdraws TEA from our compute layer to Ethereum, we burn the amount that they withdrew. Similarly, an end-user's deposit will be noted on our compute layer so that there's a 1:1 correspondence between our compute layer's and the layer-1's assets. Optionally, we may at some point turn off the bridge to layer-1. This bridge is technically breakable if there are any legal concerns depending on the needs of enterprise. At that point, fiat can be used to fund the compute layer operations and any TEA or CML that the fiat buys stays only within the compute layer.
