# TEA Ecosystem Development
## The 3-Phase Rollout 
The TEA Project will use a 3-phase rollout that encompasses miners, developers, and consumers in exactly that order. A strong mining community must be developed to provide the infrastructure before developers are onboarded. Similarly, developers must develop compelling apps before consumers can be enticed to enter the ecosystem. 
Each demographic will be encouraged to enter the TEA Project through a variety of methods. 

### 1. Miners 
The TEA Project aims to build a healthy ecosystem by starting with the miners to run the hosting nodes. Miners harvest TEA tokens from hardware mining with CML. 
Miners "plant" CML into their mining hardware equipped with a TPM chip and a GPS module. 
Mining machines host web3 applications and are rewarded in TEA tokens based on the app's consumed computing resources.
### 2. Developers 
After miners have built up the actual computing infrastructure, the focus shifts to onboarding developers. This segment of the rollout will include tech education & outreach on how to build on the TEA ecosystem. 

- Hackathon events and grant program released. 
- TEA SDK available helping developers build with the TEA dev framework. 
- TAppStore launched showcasing rich dApps running on the TEA platform. 

### 3. Consumers 
After miners and developers, next up is the consumer outreach phase. The rich TApps available in the TApp store are now marketed to consumers. We hope to see a positive feedback loop: as more consumers enter ecosystem, devs can see what apps consumers want. The devs then focus on making TApps that meet consumer demand, and popular TApps financially reward both miners and developers.  
Additionally, consumers can invest in each TApp through its bonding curve and promote the TApp on social media. Becoming a curator for a burgeoning TApp helps the consumer (their TApp tokens they hold will increase in price along the bonding curve as more buyers push the supply higher). Their curation will also help the platform become better known on social media, which again shows how self-interested action within the TEA Project benefits the ecosystem on the whole.  

## Developers Funding 
Developers can use TEA Project’s built-in bonding curve to generate investment in their TApp. This funding mechanism allows TApps to leverage expected future revenue into early development funding. The TAppStore is where the entire TEA ecosystem meets: developers to publish their TApps, curators to publicize and invest in new trending TApps, and consumers to spend their TEA tokens on useful TApps they want to use. 

## TApp Tokens Help Onboard New Users 
Because TApp token sales are a great vehicle for project teams to get funding, it benefits them to advertise their token sale to the public. Every time someone uses their TApp is another opportunity for the TApp to win over a possible investor. 
Consumers of TApps are likewise incentivized to promote TApps they find useful. After buying into a TApp's tokens, they can then promote these TApps on social media in an effort to get others to invest in the TApp or use it themselves. Either action will increase the supply of the token and therefore its price. 
The TApp token economy acts as another path towards onboarding new users into the TEA Project's ecosystem. Consumers interested in TApps will exchange ETH to buy TEA which in turn will support the TEA token price and grow the TEA economy. 

## TEA Project is Infrastructure for Web3
The push towards full-speed web3 dApps lacks one missing piece: a development framework for building rich web3 dApps. A big reason that web3 has not yet become a reality yet is this lack of a framework. The TEA Project want to make it easier for developers to make the jump to web3 by using our familiar development framework as their entry point. The TEA Project will have an SDK available to help shorten development time on our platform. Creating dApps for the TEA Project will always be straightforward for developers as our native binary format is WebAssembly (WASM). WASM, the native language of TApps, is fast, secure, and easy to output to from a variety of different programming languages. This flexibility makes it easier for developers to take the leap into web3 by using the TEA Project as their entry point.

The TEA framework makes building such dApps straightforward as it provides an SDK, wide programming language compatibility through WebAssembly, and code hosting through TEA's decentralized layer-2 nodes. The TEA Project platform also handles billing and allows developers to deploy their code as microservices. These microservices are like libraries that other developers can call as part of their larger programs. The difference here is that the microservice authors get paid everytime their code is called from another developer's code.

As an infrastructure provider for web3, the TEA Project isn't itself a developer of web3 dApps. We'll make available reference TApps along with tutorials to help others build on TEA, but the work of actually producing viable web3 dApps will be up to the developers themselves. It's an open question which apps will make the successful transition from web2 to web3. It's not the TEA Project's role to pick the winners here. There will be a natural organic movement of certain classes of apps away from centralized hosting that require better data privacy and decentralization. The TEA Project's job is to ensure that our platform is the easiest to build on and lives up to the promise of full-speed decentralization when developers come looking for the ideal platform to deploy their dApps on.

There are many benefits for developers to use the TEA Project platform as a transition point to web3. One of the primary 3-tier architecture that has a front-end, an execution tier, and a database available for app developers.

1. Front-end (e.g. written in html, css, and javascript) that's hosted on IPFS.
2. An execution layer that replicates the computer power of the server. This execution tier is decentralized among the mining nodes running on our layer-2.
3. A database tier that allows developers to query the current state of their app. This functionality of TEA is also run on our layer-2 mining nodes and is made possible by their on-board GPS module that orders state changes using time as the root of trust.

Code runs as WASM binaries, which allows developers to use their preferred programming language. When a client requests app execution, encrypted data (either local or hosted on IPFS) and encrypted binary code (hosted on IPFS) are decrypted within the TPM-protected enclaves of TEA's layer-2 mining nodes. No trust is needed between developers, the hosting nodes, or the end user. The TEA Project ensures the developers and hosting nodes are paid through a transaction and the user gets the desired result from the app.
